.TH CABAL 1
.SH NAME
cabal \- a system for building and packaging Haskell libraries and programs
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cabal
.I command
.RI < arguments |[ options ]>...

Where the
.I commands
are

.B cabal install
.R - Install packages.
.br
.B cabal update
.R - Updates list of known packages.
.br
.B cabal list
.R - List packages matching a search string.
.br
.B cabal info
.R - Display detailed information about a particular package.
.br
.B cabal fetch
.R - Downloads packages for later installation.
.br
.B cabal freeze
.R - Freeze dependencies.
.br
.B cabal get
.R - Download/Extract a package's source code (repository).
.br
.B cabal check
.R - Check the package for common mistakes.
.br
.B cabal sdist
.R - Generate a source distribution file (.tar.gz).
.br
.B cabal upload
.R - Uploads source packages or documentation to Hackage.
.br
.B cabal report
.R - Upload build reports to a remote server.
.br
.B cabal run
.R - Builds and runs an executable.
.br
.B cabal init
.R - Create a new .cabal package file (interactively).
.br
.B cabal configure
.R - Prepare to build the package.
.br
.B cabal build
.R - Compile all/specific components.
.br
.B cabal repl
.R - Open an interpreter session for the given component.
.br
.B cabal sandbox
.R - Create/modify/delete a sandbox.
.br
.B cabal haddock
.R - Generate Haddock HTML documentation.
.br
.B cabal exec
.R - Give a command access to the sandbox package repository.
.br
.B cabal user-config
.R - Display and update the user's global cabal configuration.
.br
.B cabal clean
.R - Clean up after a build.
.br
.B cabal gen-bounds
.R - Generate dependency bounds.
.br
.B cabal copy
.R - Copy the files into the install locations.
.br
.B cabal hscolour
.R - Generate HsColour colourised code, in HTML format.
.br
.B cabal register
.R - Register this package with the compiler.
.br
.B cabal test
.R - Run all/specific tests in the test suite.
.br
.B cabal bench
.R - Run all/specific benchmarks.
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Cabal is the standard package system for Haskell software. It helps people to configure, 
build and install Haskell software and to distribute it easily to other users and developers.

The command line cabal tool (also referred to as cabal-install) helps with 
installing existing packages and developing new packages. 
It can be used to work with local packages or to install packages from online package archives, 
including automatically installing dependencies. By default it is configured to use Hackage, 
which is Haskell